Okay, so last up in the ways to instal programmes
is npm and Node.
So myself, I am a Javascript developer.
I use Javascript in the client side and on the service side,
and Node is the programme I use to run
service side Javascript, and the package manager
that's become kind of the default is npm.
npm doesn't actually stand for Node package manager,
it's one of those kind of, it doesn't stand for anything.
And the way that you get npm, or the default way
of getting npm, is going to nodejs.org
and installing from the landing page.
So it's detected, the website detects that I have a Mac,
it's offering the two versions available.
So there's the LTS, which means long-term support,
which means that this will be supported for several years.
They do have a road map on, oh yeah, you go to LTS schedule,
so it'll give you an idea when it'll stop supporting LTS.
And you have the current version as well,
which is version seven.
So I've already gone ahead and installed this.
I basically clicked on this link.
It downloaded a Mac installable package,
one I had to double click, open it up,
I went through the different, go next, next, next,
and installed Node six.
But with Node, so if I go into the terminal,
I have Node six, but I also get npm,
and I get the npm version 3.10,
and that keeps upgrading as well.
And you can upgrade npm separately,
and you might already have Node installed and so on,
but npm is the way that I would instal packages.
So npm's registry, like Rubygems and Brew,
is on a different URL, so npmjs.com.
And this is the repository for all of the,
where you publish an npm package
and where you download them from.
So I think, certainly when I'm signed in,
there's kind of a list of popular packages.
You don't need to pay for an account to use it.
This is just for private packages
if you don't want people to be able to instal them.
There is a large number of users that exclusively use npm
and do not publish to npm.
Like, Brew, for instance, I can see in Brew
but I publish back into Brew.
So here's some npm packages that people use a lot.
Funny enough, npm is one of them,
and Grunt you've probably heard of,
Bower maybe as well, Express, Cordova,
Cordova is PhoneGap, and Gulp as well.
There's a lot, I think there's kind of,
300,000 or something like that, they're (mumbles).
350,000 packages.
So I'm going to instal a package from npm.
Again, it wasn't something, you don't know,
like, you can search for things,
but there's so many packages that you kind of end up
with a lot of results.
We're going to instal (mumbles) with JSON,
JSON, as in the Javascript object notation, (mumbles).
We have one called JSON in capitals and one in lowercase,
which is kind of scary, didn't expect that.
But I searched for JSON, you can see the results,
there's a lot, what's that, 12,000 results.
Actually, I want this one.
I have no idea what this one is.
I mean, I can read, but it's not the one I want.
So this is a little command line utility
that allows me to pipe JSON into it,
and it kind of structures it in a way
that I can process the data.
So if you look at the readme, I can encode
plain text into it, and I guess it formats it
for me to be able to read, but I can also
query particular properties, I can do some manipulation.
I also find it very useful for kind of querying APIs
and then just kind of putting out one piece of the data.
So let me show you how to instal that, for starters.
So I'm trying to see on this page
if it actually shows you how to instal,
and we have installation one, get Node, which we've done.
Step two, npm instal dash g, so we're going
to do that on our command line.
So npm instal dash g, or dash dash global.
And this is important.
If you don't include the dash dash global,
it will instal the npm package into your working directory,
which is not what we want for utility.
Something that we're going to reuse on our command line,
like the Pony, say, or the (mumbles) Fire.
We want a global instal package,
and there's a bunch of shortcuts that we use,
that we can use, which you can see here.
Dash g means global, I can do npm i dash g,
but just for your sake, I'm going to do
global and then json.
So that's going to go off, and I have permission, terrific.
And, let's see, so I think it's conflicting
with a previous instal I have.
So I'm just going to pause and fix this.
Okay, so I fixed that and reinstalled it,
and now, if you have a fresh instal of npm
or a Node and npm, you shouldn't get permission errors.
It is possible that you do get permission errors,
and the temptation then might be to use Sedu,
that we met earlier in the Gems example.
Now it's generally recommended you don't do that,
and there are directions on the npm help
on how to fix those kind of things.
The reason I actually had it is because
I have two users on this machine,
this Screencast user and my personal user.
But I've gone ahead and fixed that.
And like I said, I'll include a link in the notes
on how to fix in a Sedu problem,
but now, after I've already installed npm,
sorry, JSON globally, I have this utility, JSON.
And when I run it, nothing happens,
cause I have to give it some content.
So I'm going to just do echo,
in fact, I'm just going to grab the example up here,
echo, and just pipe that string into JSON.
So echo age 10.
Like I said, what I use it for is plucking out
particular properties, so here I've pulled out the age,
and I think you can see the kind of manipulation,
which may not be, oh gosh, it doesn't work today.
This dot age, I think it is, yeah.
So you can do manipulation.
There's a whole bunch of other things that you can do,
but I tend to use it for formatting,
so I actually can read large blocks of JSON,
or just pulling out one specific property.
In this case, I'm using age, but maybe
you want to (mumbles) some kind of API,
for instance, here's some, I think Javascript registry.
I think it's the right URL.
So here's a bunch of Javascript.
This is basically the JSON behind this page here,
the MPM page.
If I do curl and the URL and then pipe the JSON.
So curl is going to go and grab the URL
and then pipe the output string into the JSON command,
and then I should be able to just read,
if I wanted the readme filename,
it just gives me that one bit.
So without the json part, I'm just grabbing that URL
and just spitting it out on the screen,
and then with the json part, I'm able
to kind of see it formatted properly,
make it a bit more readable, look through the properties,
maybe I want all the contributors.
So I go ahead and just put json contributors,
and there I've got them.
And I can do things like dash a, which tricks it
as an array, and then I can get out the name, I think, yeah.
I kind of think, oh, it didn't quite work.
But still, there's lots of npm programmes.
Once, I mean, I work with one quick load,
one is the free Node development, it automatically restarts.
Know when you make file changes, and there's a tonne
of utilities on there.
Obviously I can't think of any off the top of my head
right this second, but I'm also intending
to record some videos on kind of
front end development and tools that can help you.
So, like I said, Nodemon is one of those,
so you can do npm instal dash g nodemon,
and it'll give you this programme
that will auto restart your server when files change.
This thing can check dependencies, that's linting.
If you use Sublime or Atom, typically they want you
to instal things like ESLint or CSSLint,
or anything like that.
And it'll be through npm.
So that's all of our installers.
Hopefully you can go ahead and you now know
how to run programmes locally, they're in your path,
you can instal new programmes through Gems,
through Brew, and through npm.
If you want to try Python, please do, go ahead.
I've never been successful at it, it's very tricky.
So there you are.